# homelab

Step inside my homelab server repository! This project is a journey into the realms of data storage principles, networking, server operating systems, virtualization, containers, TrueNAS, and ProxMox VE. Its mission is to build a resilient environment for exploration and education. I'm thrilled to open this repository to the community, welcoming fellow enthusiasts to join me in the pursuit of knowledge. Together, we can delve into the world of server infrastructure, enhance our expertise, and cultivate a collaborative atmosphere for sharing insights.

This entire project began as I was storing media on a portable USB hard drive plugged into an old Latitude laptop running a Plex Media Server. The laptop only has USB2.0!!! I began reading about TrueNAS as a NAS solution and Prox Mox for virtualization, and installed Prox Mox on that laptop. From there, I swapped out the laptop for a mini PC (with USB3.0 slots) and setup an Ubuntu server within Prox Mox installed on bare metal. I setup a variety of services (which will all be documented) and reacquainted myself with a Unix terminal window. I quickly ran into bottlenecks using a 4800 RPM hard drive, making it difficult to work with any of the data. I wanted to build a NAS as a storage solution for my homelab. This repo is designed at documenting the process of researching and acquiring the parts needed for this build, the actual build itself, the software setup and configuration for this build, and future projects. I want this to serve as my overarching documentation of sorts as I continue the journey into this hobby and professional development. I want to learn as much as I can.

I also have NO CLUE how to use GitHub. I'm not a software engineer, but would like to learn more.
